## Type of Attacks

#### [**Malware**](https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/an-overview-of-malware-2/) - malicious software; is a general term formed by the words “malicious” and “software” that describes different types of software intended to compromise systems, obtain sensitive data or gain unsanctioned access to a network. It’s software that is going to do something that will probably have a negative impact on you.

- [**Ransomware**](https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/ransomware-and-crypto-malware-2/) - designed to block access to a computer system until a sum of money(ransom) is paid. This category of malware locks you out of systems or encrypts your data, with the intent of restoring access once a fee is paid.
- [**Trojans**](https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/trojan-and-rats/) - The trojan hails its name from the story of the Trojan Horse. Trojans masquerade as harmless software and can initiate a variety of attacks on systems. Some trojans are aided by human action while others function without user intervention.
- [**Viruses**](https://www.professormesser.com/security-plus/sy0-601/sy0-601-video/viruses-and-worms-4/) - malware that can reproduce itself; it needs human intervention to execute a program. Similar to a real-life virus, this type of malware attaches itself to benign files on your computer and then replicates, spreading itself and infecting other files.
- Worms  - Worms resemble viruses as they are a type of infection that replicates to infect other systems. However, unlike viruses, worms don’t need a host to spread. Worms are self-sustaining and can spread without human or technological assistance; malware that self-replicates(e.g. WannaCry)
- Potentially unwanted programs (PUPs) - is a piece of software that is also downloaded when a user downloads a specific program or application. PUP is similar to malware in that it will cause problems when it is downloaded and installed.
- Fileless virus (e.g. Living off the Land) - operates in memory(RAM); type of malware that uses legitimate programs to infect a computer.
- Command and control 
- Bots  - Bots are often used to automate tasks and dynamically interact with website visitors. Unfortunately, what is used for good can often be commandeered for evil, and bots are a prime example of that. Botnets connect back to a server and self-propagate, making them particularly useful for compromising a large number of devices. This is a common tactic in DDoS attacks.
- Cryptomalware - newer generation of ransomware; uses cryptography to encrypt your data files
- Logic bombs
- Spyware  - Another type of malware with a telling name, spyware is software that is covertly installed on a system or device and monitors activities to glean useful information.
- Keyloggers  - Keylogger programs track keystrokes to help attackers discern sensitive information.
- Remote access Trojan (RAT) 
- Rootkits - Rootkits use a process known as hooking to obtain access to and modify operating system API calls that are used to supply system information. This form of malware is present at the kernel level or on system firmware. Rootkits can be used to mask nefarious activities taking place behind the scenes. 
- Backdoor
- Adware - Adware is a particular nuisance when it comes to malware. It takes shape in the form of popups and advertising that send out data when clicked upon.

• Password attacks

	- Spraying  
	- Dictionary 
	- Brute force
		- Offline
		- Online  
	- Rainbow table  
	- Plaintext/unencrypted

• Physical attacks

	- Malicious Universal Serial Bus (USB) cable
	- Malicious flash drive 
	- Card cloning  
	- Skimming

• Adversarial artificial intelligence (AI)

	- Tainted training data for machine learning (ML)
	- Security of machine learning algorithms

• Supply-chain attacks  

• Cloud-based vs. on-premises attacks 

• Cryptographic attacks

	- Birthday  
	- Collision  
	- Downgrade
